Chapter 1. Introduction

These exercises are intended to stimulate discussion, and some might be set as term projects.
Alternatively, preliminary attempts can be made now, and these attempts can be reviewed
after the completion of the book.

1.1 Define in your own words: (a) intelligence, (b) artificial intelligence, (c) agent. (d)
rationality, (e) logical reasoning .

1.2 Read Turing's original paper on AI (Turing, 1950). In the paper, he discusses several
objections to his proposed enterprise and his test for intelligence. Which objections still carry
weight? Are his refutations valid? Can you think of new objections arising from developments
since he wrote the paper? In the paper, he predicts that, by the year 2000, a computer
will have a 30% chance of passing a five-minute Turing Test with an unskilled interrogator.
What chance do you think a computer would have today? In another 50 years?

1.3 Are reflex actions (such as flinching from a hot stove) rational? Are they intelligent?

1.4 Suppose we extend Evans's ANALOGY program so that it can score 200 on a standard
lQ test. Would we then have a program more intelligent than a human"! Explain.

1.5 The neural structure of the sea slug Aplysia has been widely studied (first by Nobel
Laureate Eric Kandel) because it has only about 20,000 neurons, most of them large and
easily manipulated. Assuming that the cycle time for an Aplysia neuron is roughly the same
as for a human neuron, how does the computational power, in terms of memory updates per
second, compare with the high-end computer described in Figure 1.3?

1.6 How could introspection-reporting on one's inner thoughts-be inaccurate? Could I
be wrong about what I'm thinking? Discuss.

1.7 To what extent are the following computer systems instances of artificial intelligence:
• Supermarket bar code scanners.
• Web search engines.
• Voice-activated telephone menus.
• Intemet routing algorithms that respond dynamically to the state of the network.

1.8 Many of the computational models of cognitive activities that have been proposed involve
quite complex mathematical operations, such as convolving an image with a Gaussian
or finding a minimum of the entropy function. Most humans (and certainly all animals) never
learn this kind of mathematics at all, almost no one learns it before college, and almost no
one can compute the convolutjon of a ftmction with a Gaussian in their head. What sense
does it make to say that the "vision system" is doing this kind of mathematics, whereas the
actual person has no idea how to do it?

1.9 Why would evolution tend to result in systems that act rationally? What goals are such
systems designed to achieve?

1.10 Is AI a science, or is it engineering? Or neither or both? Explain.

1.11 "Surely computers cannot be intelligent-they can do only what their programmers
tell them." Is the latter statement true, and does it imply the former?

1.12 "Surely animals cannot be intelligent-they can do only what their genes tell them."
Is the latter statement true, and does it imply the former?

1.13 "Surely animals, humans, and computers cannot be intelligent-they can do only what
their constituent atoms are told to do by the laws of physics." Is the latter statement true, and
does it imply the former?

1.14 Examine the AI literature to discover whether the following tasks can currently be
solved by computers:
a. Playing a decent game of table tennis (Ping-Pong).
b. Driving in the center of Cairo, Egypt.
c. Driving in Victorville, Califomia.
d. Buying a week's worth of groceries at the market.
e. Buying a week's worth of groceries on the Web.
f. Playing a decent game of bridge at a competitive level.
g. Discovering and proving new mathematical theorems.
h. Writing an intentionally funny story.
i. Giving competent legal advice in a specialized area of law.
j. Translating spoken English into spoken Swedish in real time.
k. Performing a complex surgical operation.

1.15 Various subfields of AI have held contests by defining a standard task and inviting researchers
to do their best. Examples include the DARPA Grand Challenge for robotic cars,
The International Planning Competition, the Robocup robotic soccer league, the TREC information
retrieval event, and contests in machine translation, speech recognition. Investigate
five of these contests, and describe the progress made over the years. To what degree have the
contests advanced toe state of the art in AI? Do what degree do they hurt the field by drawing
energy away from new ideas?




i. Stanford / engineering / computer science
ii. master of science in ML / Carnegie Mellon University
iii. master in computer science - ML - thesis option
iv. duke - electrical & computer engineering - data analytical & machine learning - specialized program
v. MIT



1. Carnegie Mellon University
2. MIT 
3. Stanford University
4. University of California - Berkeley
5. University of Texas at Austin
6. Cornell University
7. University of Illinois - Urbana - Champaign
8. University of Washington - information school
9. Georgia institute of technology
10. California institute of technology















